
--- Page 1 ---
IIBF VISION
Online 
Examination
Training
E-Learning
Mock Test
Face Book
Video 
Lecture
You
Tube
"The information / news items contained in this publication have appeared in various external sources / media for public use or consumption and 
are now meant only for members and subscribers. The views expressed and / or events narrated/ stated in the said information / news items are as 
perceived by the respective sources. IIBF neither holds nor assumes any responsibility for the correctness or adequacy or otherwise of the news items 
/ events or any information whatsoever."
INSIDE
MISSION
To develop professionally qualified and 
competent bankers and finance professionals 
primarily through a process of education, 
training, 
examination, 
consultancy 
/
counselling 
and 
continuing 
professional 
development programs.
VISION
To 
be 
premier 
Institute 
for 
developing and nurturing competent 
professionals in banking and finance 
field.
No. of Pages - 8
Top Stories..............................................2
Banking Policies.....................................2
Banking Developments.........................3
Capital Market........................................3
Regulator Speaks....................................3
Economic Wrap Up...............................4
New Appointments................................5
Forex........................................................5
Glossary...................................................5
Financial Basics......................................5
Institute’s Training  Activities...............6
News From the Institute........................6
Market Roundup....................................7
Green Initiative.......................................8
 
A Monthly Newsletter of Indian Institute of Banking & Finance
Volume No. : 18
Issue No. : 5
December 2025
(ISO 21001 : 2018 CERTIFIED)
No. of Pages - 8


--- Page 2 ---
2
December 2025
IIBF VISION
Top Stories - Banking Policies
RBI guidelines on Digital banking channels mandates customer consent for onboarding
In its final guidelines for digital banking channels, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has specified that banks 
cannot mandate any customer to opt for any digital banking channel to avail any other banking facility like 
debit cards. In fact, banks must obtain explicit consent from the customer for providing digital banking services 
which may be duly recorded/documented. The guidelines also require banks to install appropriate risk mitigation 
measures, according to their risk perception. The RBI has issued separate guidelines on Digital Banking Channels 
Authorisation for Commercial Banks, Small Finance Banks, Payments Banks, Local Area Banks, Regional Rural 
Banks, Urban Co-operative Banks and Rural Co-operative Banks.
RBI consolidated Master Directions
To enhance clarity, ease of access and reduce compliance burden for Regulated Entities (REs), the RBI has 
undertaken a massive consolidation exercise of circulars/guidelines. Under this consolidation effort that 
involved more than 9000 circulars/guidelines, instructions contained in approximately 3500 directions, circulars 
and guidelines were consolidated into 238 Master Directions (MDs), across 11 types of REs. These include
(a) Commercial Banks; (b) Small Finance Banks; (c) Payments Banks; (d) Local Area Banks; (e) Regional Rural 
Banks; (f) Urban Co-operative Banks; (g) Rural Co-operative Banks; (h) All India Financial Institutions; (i) Non-
Banking Financial Companies; (j) Asset Reconstruction Companies; and (k) Credit Information Companies. 
These MDs will serve as the sole library of regulations administered by the Department of Regulation. Instructions 
contained in remaining directions/circulars have been identified as obsolete and 9445 circulars stood repealed/
withdrawn after the consolidated MDs were issued.
Digital Personal Data Protection Rules, 2025
The Government of India has notified the Digital Personal Data Protection (DPDP) Rules, 2025 to curb 
unauthorized commercial use of data, reduce digital harms and create a safe space for innovation. The Rules 
establish a fully digital Data Protection Board of India. The Board functions as an independent body that 
oversees compliance, inquires into breaches and ensures that corrective measures are taken. The Act places 
clear responsibilities on Data Fiduciaries to keep personal data safe and to stay accountable for its use; and has 
provision for substantial financial penalties for non-compliance by them. 
Banking Policies
Foreign Exchange Management (Export of Goods and Services) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2025
RBI released the Directions to give exporters additional time to complete transactions and manage working 
capital under challenging global demand and logistic conditions. As per the revised norms, exporters of goods/
software/services are now allowed 15 months (up from 9 months) from the date of export to realise and repatriate 
the full export value or as specified by RBI in consultation with Government of India. In cases where advance 
payment has been received, exporters now have up to 3 years (instead of 1 year) to ship the goods, whichever is 
later, as per contractual agreement.
RBI released trade relief measures
RBI has issued trade relief measures. Accordingly, moratorium or deferment has been permitted on payment of 
term-loan instalments and on recovery of interest on working capital loans for amounts that are due between 
September 1, 2025 and December 31, 2025. Banks and other lenders have been permitted to recalculate drawing 
power under working capital facilities by reducing margins or reassessing the limits during the aforementioned 
period. For credit disbursed up to March 31, 2026, the maximum credit period available for pre-shipment and 
post-shipment export credit has been increased from one year to 450 days. For exporters who availed packing-
credit facilities on or before August 31, 2025 but could not dispatch the goods, their lenders can liquidate the 
facility from any legitimate alternate sources.
TOP STORIES


--- Page 3 ---
3
December 2025
IIBF VISION
Banking Developments
RBI classifies Municipal Debt Securities as eligible for repo transactions 
To regulate the financial system, the RBI has revised the Repurchase Transactions Directions, 2025 to include 
Municipal Debt Securities as eligible securities for repo and reverse repo transactions, alongside Government 
and corporate debt securities. With RBI’s prior approval, repo transactions may be traded on any recognized 
stock exchanges or an Electronic Trading Platform (ETP) duly authorised by the RBI or in the Over-the-Counter 
(OTC) market. The first leg of all repo transactions shall settle either on a T+0 or T+1 basis.
Compounding of Contraventions under FEMA, 1999 revised by RBI to include new account number
To streamline the receipt of compounding application fee and ‘sum for which a contravention is compounded’ 
(compounding amount), the RBI has revised the Compounding of Contraventions under FEMA, 1999 to change 
the account details of the account where compounding application fee and compounding amount will be received 
through National Electronic Fund Transfer (NEFT) and Real Time Gross Settlement (RTGS). 
UPI-TIPS interlinkage to ease remittances between India and Euro Area 
RBI has announced the interlinking of Unified Payments Interface (UPI) with the Eurosystem’s TARGET Instant 
Payment Settlement (TIPS). The UPI-TIPS interlinkage will facilitate cross-border remittances between India 
and the Euro Area. RBI and NPCI International Payments Limited (NIPL) have been engaging with European 
Central Bank to operationalize this system including technical integration, risk management and settlement 
arrangements.
Capital Market
SEBI incentivizes distributors to encourage women, B-30 investor participation
To boost the participation of women investors and people from beyond top 30 (B-30) cities, the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) has introduced an incentive framework for Mutual Fund distributors. 
Accordingly, from February 2026, distributors bringing new individual investors (new PANs) from B-30 
cities and new women investors from both T30 and B-30 locations will be eligible for up to ₹2,000 additional 
commissions per investor. The incentive structure will not be applicable for schemes like Exchange Traded Funds 
(ETFs), domestic fund of funds with more than 80% of Asseta Under Management invested in domestic funds 
and short duration debt schemes like overnight, liquid, ultra-short duration and low duration. 
REITs reclassified by SEBI as equity instruments to boost market participation
To facilitate enhanced participation by Mutual Funds (MFs) and Specialized Investment Funds (SIFs) in Real 
Estate Investment Trusts (REITs), with effect from January 01, 2026, any investment made by MFs and SIFs in 
REITs shall be considered as investment in equity-related instruments. Infrastructure Investment Trusts (InvITs) 
shall continue to be classified as hybrid instruments for the purpose of investments by Mutual Funds and SIFs. 
Existing investment in REITs held by debt schemes of Mutual Funds and investment strategies of SIFs as on 
December 31, 2025, shall be grandfathered. 
Regulator Speaks
Regulations must evolve, resolve challenges to combat market failures: Mr. Sanjay Malhotra, Governor, RBI 
Regulation is a pragmatic response to the inherent limitations of unregulated markets in specific contexts, 
said Mr. Sanjay Malhotra, Governor, RBI at the Second V.K.R.V. Rao Memorial Lecture, Delhi School of 
Economics. Financial regulation operates in a different way as compared to other sectoral regulations, due to its 
interconnectedness, cascading effect and fragile nature. Regulations need to change when the context changes. To 
achieve good regulatory outcomes is almost always a collaborative effort by the Government, amongst regulators, 
the regulated and the broader community such as informed citizens, responsible financial institutions, engaged 
scholars and bright students who will shape the future of Indian financial system. 
Banking sector must embrace new technologies with wisdom: Mr. T Rabi Sankar, Deputy Governor, RBI 
Delivering a speech at the 12th SBI Banking & Economics Conclave, Mr. T Rabi Sankar, Deputy Governor, RBI, 
Banking Developments - Capital Market - Regulator Speaks


--- Page 4 ---
4
December 2025
IIBF VISION
Regulator Speaks - Economic Wrap Up 
highlighted the impact of transformational technologies on the banking sector. With powerful technologies like 
Artificial Intelligence (AI) and quantum computing making strides towards this sector, the challenge is how to 
embrace them with wisdom and purpose; and ensure that technological evolution is secure, inclusive, resilient 
and future-ready. Banks must be well-equipped to face these challenges while maintaining their central role in 
monetary transmission and financial stability. 
Adequate capitalisation is imperative for financial resilience: Mr. Murmu, Deputy Governor, RBI
Speaking at the first International Conference on Central Bank Accounting Practices organised by RBI and the 
South East Asian Central Banks (SEACEN) Centre, Mr. Shirish Chandra Murmu, Deputy Governor, RBI opined 
that Central Banks of emerging and developing economies require adequate capitalisation to ensure financial 
resilience. In the absence of any internationally recognised risk capital framework, each Central Bank finds 
its own balance between the opportunity cost of Central Bank capital vis-vis the socio-economic cost and the 
negative consequences of under-capitalisation. 
Microfinance alleviates asymmetry in lending; must be made more inclusive: Mr. Swaminathan, Deputy 
Governor, RBI
Microfinance bridges asymmetry by extending the benefits of formal finance to the excluded and help them create 
a transaction record. Now, the agenda must be to convert reach into inclusive growth, said Mr. Swaminathan J., 
Deputy Governor, RBI at the MFIN event. This can be achieved through better and tech-enabled underwriting, 
reasonable pricing and consistent customer protection. Credit decisions work best on understanding the full 
cash life cycle of the family. Product design must match the actual growth of small businesses. Taken together, 
the aim is to convert first access into regular use, regular use into stable income and stable income into a clear 
route to formal credit.
Policy making gets strengthened by timely and topical statistics: Dr. Poonam, Deputy Governor, RBI
Indian economy has been a high growth economy exhibiting both, resilience and agility, said Dr. Poonam Gupta 
at the Pre-release Consultative Workshop on Base Revision of Consumer Price Index (CPI), Gross Domestic 
Product (GDP) and Index of Industrial Production (IIP). Our statistical offerings, data and techniques must 
keep pace with the growing and rapidly evolving economy. Constantly evolving transformations can be best 
captured only by regularly updating and revising the existing data series, as well as constructing new ones. 
Planned enhancements include a redesign of the underlying data architecture, development of Application 
Programming Interfaces (APIs) for automatic retrieval, improved search and visualisation tools and harmonised 
user experience across the portal, mobile app and future digital channels.
Economic Wrap Up
Department of Economic Affairs released Monthly Economic Review, October 2025. Its key highlights are as 
follows:
•	
The manufacturing Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI) rising to 59.2 from 57.5 in September.
•	
The average daily value of UPI transactions has shown YOY growth of 27.1% in November 2025 (as on 
November 18, 2025).
•	
Retail inflation has reached an all-time low in the current series, dropping to 0.25% in October 2025, down 
from 1.44% in September 2025.
•	
Net Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) to India for April-Sep FY26 increased to USD 24 billion from USD 
15.6 billion, a year earlier.
•	
The share of households’ financial investments in total financial assets has risen to 15.1%.
•	
In September 2025, bank credit to MSME showed a YoY increase of 19.7%, compared to an increase of 
15.5% in September 2024. Within the MSME sector, the credit extended to the micro and small enterprises 
has registered an increase of 22% (YoY) in September 2025, up from 13.4% in September 2024.


--- Page 5 ---
5
December 2025
IIBF VISION
New Appointments - Forex - Glossary - Financial Basics 
New Appointments
Name
Designation
Ms. Usha Janakiraman
Executive Director, Reserve Bank of India
Shri Amit Kumar Shrivastava
Executive Director, Punjab National Bank
Shri Sunil Kumar Chug
Executive Director, Canara Bank
Shri Amresh Prasad
Executive Director, Union Bank of India
Shri Prabhat Kiran
Executive Director, Bank of Maharashtra
Ms. Mini T. M. 
Executive Director, Indian Bank
Shri Pramod Kumar Dwibedi
Executive Director, Bank of India
Forex
Foreign Exchange Reserves
Trends in Foreign Exchange
Reserve (US$ Mn) last 6 months
Item
As on November 28, 2025
Note: Data as reported on last Friday of respective month
` Cr.
US$ Mn.
1
2
1 Total Reserves
6137575
686227
1.1 Foreign Currency Assets
4982046
557031
1.2 Gold
946227
105795
1.3 SDRs
166610
18628
1.4 Reserve Position in the IMF
42692
4772
Source: Reserve Bank of India
Base Rates of Alternative Reference Rates (ARRs) for FCNR (B) deposits as on November 28, 2025, applicable 
for the month of December 2025
ARR Name
Base Rates 
of ARR (%)
ARR Name 
Base Rates 
of ARR (%)
ARR Name 
Base Rates 
of ARR (%)
SOFR (USD)
4.05
AONIA (AUD)
3.60
HONIA (HKD)
1.40646
SONIA (GBP)
3.969
SARON (CHF)
-0.037800
MYOR (MYR)
2.75
€STR (EUR)
1.928
OCR (NZD)
2.25
DESTR (DKK)
1.5380
TONA (JPY)
0.478
SWESTR (SEK)
1.631
Source: www.fbil.org.in
CORRA (CAD)
2.2400
SORA (SGD)
1.0782
Glossary
Purchasing Managers’ Index
Purchasing Managers’ Index refers to monthly economic surveys of companies in which senior managers 
overseeing operations answer questions on business activity and its recent trends. 
Financial Basics
Written-Down Value
Written-down value is the value of an asset after accounting for depreciation or amortization. It reflects an 
asset’s current value by subtracting accumulated depreciation or amortization from its original cost. This value 


--- Page 6 ---
6
December 2025
IIBF VISION
Financial Basics  - Institute's Training Activities - News from the Institute
is included on the company’s balance sheet in its financial statements. It is also known as the book value or net 
book value of an asset. 
Institute’s Training Activities
Training Programmes for the month of December 2025
Programmes
Dates
Location
Programme on KYC, AML & CFT for Banks, NBFCs & FIs
9th-20th December, 2025
Virtual
Programme on Credit Monitoring and Recovery
10th-12th December, 
2025
Virtual
Workshop on Banking Ombudsman & COPRA
12th December, 2025
Virtual
Programme for Law Officers on Legal Risk, Compliance & 
Recovery in Banks, NBFCs & FIs
16th-17th December, 
2025
Virtual
Programme on Executive Development Programme
16th-18th December, 
2025
Professional Development 
Centre, Northern Zone, New 
Delhi
Programme on Mitigation strategies for credit & operational 
risk in banks
22nd-23rd December, 
2025
Virtual
Programme on Business Analytics, Machine Learning and 
Artificial Intelligence and its Implication in Banks
22nd-24th December, 
2025
Virtual
Workshop on Smart Banking with AI - A Deep Dive for 
Bankers
23rd December, 2025
Virtual
News from the Institute
IIBF organised the 40th Sir Purshotamdas Thakurdas Memorial Lecture 
On 3rd December 2025, the Institute held the 40th Sir Purshotamdas Thakurdas Memorial Lecture in virtual 
mode. The lecture was delivered by Prof. Manoj Kumar Tiwari, Director, Indian Institute of Management (IIM) 
Mumbai on “Knowledge Graph Integrated Credit Risk Assessment”. The lecture was well received and attended 
by a wide number of bankers.
IIBF conducted a 3-Day Trainers’ Training Programme 
As part of its academic capacity-building initiatives, IIBF organised a Trainers’ Training Programme on 
‘Pedagogical Excellence & Industry-Relevant Teaching in Banking & Finance’ for Faculty across its MoU 
Colleges and Universities, from December 3-5, 2025. The sessions emphasized effective teaching practices, soft-
skill integration and enhanced student readiness for BFSI careers.
IIBF organised joint Webinar on “Getting Started with Impact Management for Indian Banks” 
IIBF organised joint webinar with United Nations Environment Finance Initiative (UNEP FI), Gesellschaft für 
Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ) and Chartered Banker Institute under Principles for Responsible Banking 
(PRB) Academy on “Getting Started with Impact Management for Indian Banks” on November 27, 2025. The 
webinar provided insights on why impact management matters for Indian banks and the practical tools and 
resources available to start impact analysis and management.
IIBF’s ‘Leaders Speak Series’ 
Shri Hare Krishna Jena, Managing Director and CEO, The Clearing Corporation of India Ltd. (CCIL), delivered 
an address to the XIV batch of Advanced Management Programme, under IIBF’s Leaders Speak Series organised 
on November 30, 2025.


--- Page 7 ---
7
December 2025
IIBF VISION
News from the Institute - Market Roundup
IIBF invites papers/proposals under Micro and Macro Research 2025-26 
Micro Research is a sort of an essay competition for life members of the Institute (bankers) to present their original 
ideas, thoughts and best practices on areas of their interest. Under Macro research, Institute encourages empirical 
research in which, the researchers can test their hypothesis through data (primary/secondary) from which, lessons 
can be drawn for the industry (banking & finance) as a whole. The last date for receipt of applications under Micro 
and Macro Research is February 28, 2026. For more details, please visit www.iibf.org.in
IIBF invites applications under Diamond Jubilee and CH Bhabha Banking Overseas Research Fellowship 
(DJCHBBORF) for the year 2025-26
The Institute invites applications under Diamond Jubilee and CH Bhabha Banking Overseas Research Fellowship 
(DJCHBBORF) Scheme. The objective of the fellowship is to provide the successful candidate an opportunity to 
undertake a research study on the latest developments in the field of banking and finance in India or abroad. The 
last date for receipt of applications is February 28, 2026. For more details, please visit www.iibf.org.in
Bank Quest Theme for upcoming issue
The theme for the upcoming issue of Bank Quest for the quarter October-December 2025 is “Emerging 
Technologies in Banking”. The Sub-themes are: Applications of Generative Artificial Intelligence (AI), Ethical AI, 
Fraud Detection and Creating Early Warning Signals, Technologies for Project Appraisal and Credit Appraisal.
Cut-off date of guidelines/important developments for examinations
The Institute has a practice of asking questions in each exam about the recent developments/guidelines issued by 
the regulator(s) in order to test if the candidates keep themselves abreast of the current developments. However, 
there could be changes in the developments/guidelines from the date the question papers are prepared and the 
dates of the actual examinations. In order to address these issues effectively, it has been decided that:
(i) In respect of the exams to be conducted by the Institute for the period from March to August of a calendar 
year, instructions/guidelines issued by the regulator(s) and important developments in banking and finance up 
to 31st December will only be considered for the purpose of inclusion in the question papers.
(ii) In respect of the examinations to be conducted by the Institute for the period September to February of a 
calendar year, instructions/ guidelines issued by the regulator(s) and important developments in banking and 
finance up to 30th June will only be considered for the purpose of inclusion in the question papers.
 
 
Source: FBIL
Source: Weekly Newsletter of CCIL
Market Roundup


--- Page 8 ---
8
December 2025
IIBF VISION
● Registered with Registrar of Newspapers Under RNI No. : 69228/1998
INDIAN INSTITUTE OF BANKING & FINANCE
Kohinoor City, Commercial-II, Tower-I, 2nd Floor, Kirol Road, Kurla (W),
Mumbai - 400 070.
Tel. : 91-22-6850 7000 
E-mail : admin@iibf.org.in
Website : www.iibf.org.in
Printed by Biswa Ketan Das, Published by Biswa Ketan Das, on behalf 
of Indian Institute of Banking & Finance, and printed at Onlooker Press
16, Sasoon Dock, Colaba, Mumbai - 400 005 and published at Indian Institute 
of Banking & Finance, Kohinoor City, Commercial-II, Tower-I, 2nd Floor, 
Kirol Road, Kurla (W), Mumbai - 400 070.
Editor : Biswa Ketan Das
Green Initiative
Members are requested to update their e-mail address with the 
Institute and send their consent to receive the Annual Report 
via e-mail.
Market Roundup - Green Initiative
Source: Monthly Review of the Economy, CCIL,  November 2025
Source: PPAC, Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas
Source: Reserve Bank of India
Source: Monthly Review of the Economy, CCIL, November 2025
Source: Gold Price India
Source: BSE & NSE
